Alejandro |Pastrana Valls |Estudio sobre la corrupcion en America Latina |/repo/Estudio sobre la corrupcion en America Latina.pdf |2019 |This paper focuses on the analysis of corruption in Latin America by studying the effect that the perception of the existance of corrupt officials has on the satisfaction of the democracy regime, considering the political and economic context in which citiziens live to accept or reject it. In addition, it investigates the influence of the fight against corruption on the approval of democratic regime. Finally, it studies implication of corruption based on a contextual or geographical and analysis of democratic approval. The hypotheses are analyzed generating logit, clarify and multilevel logit model. |
Geoffrey |Hodgson |La Economia de la Corrupcion y la Corrupcion de la Economia: Una Perspectiva Institucionalista |/repo/La Economia de la Corrupcion y la Corrupcion de la Economia, Una Perspectiva Institucionalista.pdf |2008 |This essay criticizes the commonplace definition of corruption as the misuse of public office for private gain. Both elements in this definition are wrong: corruption is also found in the private sector and in some exceptional cases it may not simply be for private gain. Another problem with prevailing treatments of corruption is their reliance on a utilitarian framework, which reduces ethical issues to matters of individual utility. This paper reinstates a non-utilitarian ethical dimension, and regards organizational corruption as involving collusion to violate established normative rules. It is further established that organizational corruption incurs irreducible social costs that cannot fully be internalized in a Coasean manner, because corruption itself undermines the very framework of property rights. |
Olof |Page |Corrupcion Institucional |/repo/Corrupcion Institucional.pdf |2018 |At least from the publication of Dennis F. Thompson s classic Ethics in Congress. From Individual to Institucional Corruption (1995) the concept of institucional corruption has received great attention. This type of corruption is different from personal moral motives. In this article I explore this distinction and raise some critical observations to the way in which Thompson has recently elaborated it. |
German |Silva Garcia |Corrupcion y derechos humanos. El estado hacendal y la cleptocracia |/repo/Corrupcion y derechos humanos. El estado hacendal y la cleptocracia.pdf |2019 |This research article offers an enhanced theoretical framework to analyze public corruption. To do so, it introduces three categories: Hacienda System State, kleptocracy and Kleptocrats. These three categories are thoroughly explained and then are applied to the understanding of public corruption, its main features, and general conditions required for its operation. The resulting analytical framework is subsequently used to analyze the main routes through which corruption enables human rights violations. |
Marisa |Ramos Rollon |El control de la corrupcion en America Latina: agenda politica, judilizacion e internalizacion de la lucha contra la corrupcion |/repo/El control de la corrupcion en America Latina, agenda politica, judilizacion e internalizacion de la lucha contra la corrupcion.pdf |2019 |The paper analyzes the effects of corruption on the political agendas, judicial processes and the international agenda in Latin America. Specifically, the analysis adresses on the effect on public opinion of some of the most mediatic cases of political corruption, such as those involving former presidents, legislators or politicians in general, and the way in which this phenomenon is conditioning different agendas. First, we discuss the impact of corruption and its perception on the political agendas of many of the governments of the region which has fostered more or less ambitious reforms aimed at promoting good governance. Furthermore, we highlight some reflections on the impact of the phenomenon of corruption in judicial processes, especially through a greater judicialization of politics and the consequent politicization of justice. Finally, the analysis of the international variable is addressed in a double sense: international cooperation as a key instrument for the control of corruption and the impact of corruption on the development agendas of different international actors. |